Notes collected from PNG specification version 1.2
===============================================================================


Attribution
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The information in this file was produced by directly copying or indirectly
interpretating the following document:

    PNG (Portable Network Graphics) Specification, Version 1.2

The full text of the document is available at the following URL:

    http://www.libpng.org/pub/png/spec/1.2/png-1.2-pdg.html

The following copyright notice applies to the specification, and is reproduced
here to fulfill the obligations of the copyright notice. The copyright holder
of this software makes no claim of copyright to the information within.


Copyright Notice
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Copyright © 1998, 1999 by: Glenn Randers-Pehrson

This specification is a modification of the PNG 1.0 specification. It is being
provided by the copyright holder under the provisions of the 1996 MIT copyright
and license:

Copyright © 1996 by: Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT)

This W3C specification is being provided by the copyright holders under the
following license. By obtaining, using and/or copying this specification, you
agree that you have read, understood, and will comply with the following terms
and conditions:

Permission to use, copy, and distribute this specification for any purpose and
without fee or royalty is hereby granted, provided that the full text of this
NOTICE appears on ALL copies of the specification or portions thereof,
including modifications, that you make.

THIS SPECIFICATION IS PROVIDED "AS IS," AND COPYRIGHT HOLDERS MAKE NO
REPRESENTATIONS OR WARRANTIES, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED. BY WAY OF EXAMPLE, BUT NOT
LIMITATION, COPYRIGHT HOLDERS MAKE NO REPRESENTATIONS OR WARRANTIES OF
MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PARTICULAR PURPOSE OR THAT THE USE OF THE
SPECIFICATION WILL NOT INFRINGE ANY THIRD PARTY PATENTS, COPYRIGHTS, TRADEMARKS
OR OTHER RIGHTS. COPYRIGHT HOLDERS WILL BEAR NO LIABILITY FOR ANY USE OF THIS
SPECIFICATION.

The name and trademarks of copyright holders may NOT be used in advertising or
publicity pertaining to the specification without specific, written prior
permission. Title to copyright in this specification and any associated
documentation will at all times remain with copyright holders. 





Chunk Ordering Constraints
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Critical chunks (must appear in this order, except PLTE
                 is optional):

    Name  Multiple  Ordering constraints
            OK?

    IHDR    No      Must be first
    PLTE    No      Before IDAT
    IDAT    Yes     Multiple IDATs must be consecutive
    IEND    No      Must be last

Ancillary chunks (need not appear in this order):

    Name  Multiple  Ordering constraints
            OK?

    cHRM    No      Before PLTE and IDAT
    gAMA    No      Before PLTE and IDAT
    iCCP    No      Before PLTE and IDAT
    sBIT    No      Before PLTE and IDAT
    sRGB    No      Before PLTE and IDAT
    bKGD    No      After PLTE; before IDAT
    hIST    No      After PLTE; before IDAT
    tRNS    No      After PLTE; before IDAT
    pHYs    No      Before IDAT
    sPLT    Yes     Before IDAT
    tIME    No      None
    iTXt    Yes     None
    tEXt    Yes     None
    zTXt    Yes     None


Chunk Data Field Maximum Sizes
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Limited size:

    IHDR  4+4+1+1+1+1+1 == 13 bytes
    PLTE  3*256 == 768 bytes
    IEND  0 bytes

    cHRM  4*8 == 32 bytes
    gAMA  4 bytes
    sBIT  4 bytes (color type 6)
    sRGB  1 byte
    bKGD  6 bytes (color types 2 and 6)
    hIST  2*256 == 512 bytes
    tRNS  256 bytes (color type 3, 1 byte for each palette index)
    pHYs  4+4+1 == 9 bytes
    tIME  2+1+1+1+1+1 == 7 bytes

Only limited by max chunk data size:

    IDAT  max chunk data length (compressed payload)

    iCCP  max chunk data length (partially compressed payload)
    sPLT  max chunk data length
    iTXt  max chunk data length (partially compressed payload)
    tEXt  max chunk data length
    zTXt  max chunk data length (partially compressed payload)
